---
title: "SDLC SIG Meeting"
room: "SDLC SIG"
chair: "georgezgeorgez"
chairId: "@georgezgeorgez:hc1.chat"
startTime: "2025-09-23T16:03:42.848Z"
endTime: "2025-09-23T17:04:16.930Z"
duration: "1 hour 0 minutes"
participants:
  - "@coinselor:zenon.chat"
  - "@deeznnutz:zenon.chat"
  - "@georgezgeorgez:hc1.chat"
participantStats:
  - userId: "@georgezgeorgez:hc1.chat"
    displayName: "georgezgeorgez"
    messageCount: 107
  - userId: "@coinselor:zenon.chat"
    displayName: "coinselor"
    messageCount: 24
  - userId: "@deeznnutz:zenon.chat"
    displayName: "deeznnutz"
    messageCount: 17
roomId: "!SofWOgoJIwGDXeUqOE:hc1.chat"
published: "2025-09-23T17:04:16.944Z"
---
16:04:07 georgezgeorgez: Very cool coinselor , so this basically will create a log of the meeting?
16:04:13 georgezgeorgez: over at the webapp you have
16:04:23 coinselor: yeah, you'll see at the end ^^
16:04:37 georgezgeorgez: excited to see it in action
let's get into the meeting
16:04:46 georgezgeorgez: first i want to apologize for being a bit out of pocket
16:04:55 georgezgeorgez: i had some personal things i had to travel internationally for
16:04:55 deeznnutz: cool.  do we need to use the `topic` command?
16:05:21 georgezgeorgez: but yes, let's start off by letting coinselor explaining anything he needs to for the bot
16:06:02 coinselor: basically the topic is optional, but it would show as a title in the card. So anything looking like a title would be recommended.
16:06:14 coinselor: something short
16:06:58 deeznnutz: So if we change to a new idea or focus in the meeting we would issue the topic command?
16:07:44 coinselor: other than that just using endmeeting at the end to trigger a push of the conversation log to github. 
16:08:28 coinselor: Ideally it would just be something general to cover everything, maybe you could do "PR reviews + new ai tool" or something like that if u want to add more stuff
16:09:36 georgezgeorgez: The bot is a very cool manifestation of where I want to take our project management.
16:09:47 coinselor: we are still testing it, im sure we'll get to edge cases. Not sure what if I added overwritting logic to the topic comand, for example.
16:09:55 georgezgeorgez: Summarizing where we are right now:
16:09:56 deeznnutz: coinselor: can you share the code on GH?  I want to check it out
16:10:20 coinselor: https://github.com/coinselor/hc1-sig-archive/
16:10:42 coinselor: we are still testing it, im sure we'll get to edge cases. Not sure if I added overwritting logic to the topic comand, for example. (edited)
16:11:50 georgezgeorgez: We have multiple tangible improvements
PTLC, Dynamic Plasma, etc
that exist but we haven't pushed to mainnet

This year has been a painful exercise in figuring out what is needed to actually get a community driven update done
16:12:26 georgezgeorgez: We need a place to test experimental features in production, so we started HQZ
16:13:32 georgezgeorgez: We need project management but want to focus on code, so we are experimenting with AI assisted project management
16:13:51 georgezgeorgez: We need to create incentives to get these things done, so we started the incubator
16:14:15 georgezgeorgez: We need a way for people to easily update hqz so we started on a node manager
16:14:49 georgezgeorgez: There are all these little pieces that we've experimented with and learned from
16:15:37 georgezgeorgez: Hopefully however, the few people here paying attention lol can start to see what the end to end flow can look like
16:16:08 georgezgeorgez: We need to productionalize it now and solidify it into a solid pipeline
16:16:57 georgezgeorgez: We did a round of development for the incubator
I think I was a bit ambitious for the first round, but wanted to see what could be done

I still think it's the immediate thing we need to resolve
16:17:17 georgezgeorgez: but I think we can get a lot of the value from an MVP version first milestone
16:17:59 coinselor: don't forget the deployment script, it's pretty comprehensive now and includes hqz. Though still needs to be reviewed/tested.
16:18:33 georgezgeorgez: yes absolutely, sorry i forgot to mention that
but it will be a core part of the node manager
16:19:09 deeznnutz: which Item are we going to focus on completing first?
16:19:28 georgezgeorgez: the key value that the incubator needs to deliver is interaction with pillars to pledge against projects
16:19:47 georgezgeorgez: i think for now we can define projects manually as static files, yaml, etc
16:20:02 georgezgeorgez: so i want to have another round of development to get there
16:20:21 georgezgeorgez: we can either define the projects/tasks using yaml and have a nice render layer
or do it directly through our vitepress
16:20:41 georgezgeorgez: then we just build out the pillar signalling against that
16:20:56 georgezgeorgez: that is an incubator MVP milestone
and i think we should seek to get paid for it
16:21:26 georgezgeorgez: next I want to get the other SIGS chaired up and begin creating other milestones/initiatives
16:22:14 georgezgeorgez: I want 0x to chair the delivery of the first version of the node manager for production use
16:22:32 georgezgeorgez: and the reboot of hqz
16:22:44 georgezgeorgez: then i want vilkris to chair the delivery of DP onto hqz
16:22:52 georgezgeorgez: vilkris ^
16:23:20 georgezgeorgez: we have other SIGs, and I want to give everyone here a chance to drive work if they want
16:24:11 georgezgeorgez: we've discussed cryptofish chairing for Syrius SIG before
16:24:25 georgezgeorgez: we need someone to stay on top of SDKs
16:24:31 georgezgeorgez: etc etc
16:24:43 georgezgeorgez: basically what you will do as chairs
16:25:00 georgezgeorgez: is define the the next incremental project using our MVP incubator format
16:25:05 georgezgeorgez: and we will get pledges for them
16:25:23 georgezgeorgez: we only have so many developers
so we can only have 1 active initiative ongoing within HC1 for now
16:25:54 georgezgeorgez: but we'll rotate, which makes sense
16:26:17 georgezgeorgez: we'll define new features in one sig, then other sigs will need to do some work to make use of it/get it deployed
16:27:17 georgezgeorgez: i need to get the incubator work into the https://github.com/hypercore-one/sig-sdlc repo
defined as milestones/tasks and track points
16:27:27 georgezgeorgez: but each SIG will have a repo
to be managed by the SIG chair
16:27:50 georgezgeorgez: i've been doing quite a bit of research into RAG, chunking, vectoring for AI
16:28:05 georgezgeorgez: to start we won't prescribe any hard schema on the repos
16:28:20 georgezgeorgez: but we'll converge on some standard formats to make RAG easier
16:28:35 coinselor: yeah seems like we'll have to remain flexible to shift focus if something is more urgent or lagging/blocking other progress
16:29:17 georgezgeorgez: As mentioned, coinselor 's bot is a great representation of the direction I want us to move in
16:29:51 georgezgeorgez: Right now, we have a small but very scrappy team
So every force multiplier is crucial
16:30:12 georgezgeorgez: Personally I would rather spend a lot more time on writing code than project management
16:30:30 georgezgeorgez: So I want to automate as much of the management as I can
16:30:41 georgezgeorgez: I think we can make use of agents and bots extensively for this purpose
16:30:54 deeznnutz: what other project management typo tools do you think would be useful?
16:31:01 deeznnutz: what other project management type tools do you think would be useful? (edited)
16:31:16 georgezgeorgez: So the direction I want to take is to avoid external tools
and build personal agents that work directly through matrix
16:31:34 georgezgeorgez: We all do a great job at yapping in these channels
16:31:47 coinselor: Even an AI summarizer could go a long way
16:31:53 georgezgeorgez: And these chats are valuable output
16:32:48 georgezgeorgez: Yes exactly so first tools like a summarizer
coinselor already is created meeting logs
a bot that takes that log, calls an LLM to summarize, and spit it back out into the channel is the next logical step
16:33:14 georgezgeorgez: After that, actually creating plans based on our convos here
16:33:31 georgezgeorgez: so similar to summary, but we feed it some desired schema as output
16:34:23 georgezgeorgez: e.g. for the Cucumber feature files
16:34:59 georgezgeorgez: I think it would be quite productive for us to discuss the features in matrix
and then call an LLM to generate a starter feature file for us based on that convo
16:35:26 georgezgeorgez: i don't want to get into code generation yet, but there are a lot of future opportunities for pair programming through matrix etc
16:36:03 coinselor: yeah maybe even have a section for the model to offer suggestions or raise points we might have missed during the conversation
16:36:35 georgezgeorgez: yeah so the idea is
the easiest way for people to contribute is to just chat
so let's align our tooling around that
16:36:43 georgezgeorgez: regarding maintenance and ownership of the bots
16:37:04 georgezgeorgez: my AI philosophy is still very much, someone has to own the output
it's acting as an agent on behalf of someone
16:37:39 georgezgeorgez: we don't have any guidelines in place so no worries coinselor but I would avoid having a generic bot like HC1 Meetings Bot 
16:37:53 deeznnutz: can we build them in TS and Python?  
16:38:14 georgezgeorgez: yes I think the sdks all exist
16:39:17 coinselor: well this doesn't have any ai, it's a lot more predictable what it does
16:39:20 coinselor: but I get your point
16:39:24 deeznnutz: do you want me to look into this now, or are we going to focus on the MVP of the incubator first?
16:39:27 coinselor: well this bot doesn't have any ai, it's a lot more predictable what it does (edited)
16:39:39 georgezgeorgez: unless we are truly maintaining them together
let's start all bots as owned by an individual
16:39:54 georgezgeorgez: you get more credit that way too haha
16:40:18 georgezgeorgez: long term we need to federate the matrix a bit more
i'll probably spin up an ignition matrix server
16:40:28 georgezgeorgez: and run my bots under that server
16:40:48 georgezgeorgez: e.g i don't want to get into HC1 shared API keys etc
16:41:10 georgezgeorgez: and the idea is that we can have agents run by different people for different purposes
16:41:20 deeznnutz: Do we see value in making bots that try to get more people here on matrix that are not related to project management?  For example, I created an AI bot with all of Kaine's posts.  Might be cool to turn that into a bot for people to ask questions to.
16:41:25 georgezgeorgez: even something as simple as a summarizer
there's different audiences to summarize for
16:41:48 coinselor: cool, I can just remove the hc1 name from the repo/bot and do just Zenon or something else
16:42:42 deeznnutz: Do we see value in making bots that try to get more people here on matrix that are not related to project management?  For example, I created an AI bot with all of Kaine's posts.  Might be cool to turn that into a bot for people to ask questions to.  it responds to questions about his prior posts. (edited)
16:43:11 coinselor: would be cool on #general:zenon.chat 
16:43:49 georgezgeorgez: so specifically for Kaine posts, that's probably more of a fun/flavor project
16:44:02 georgezgeorgez: but the ideas behind it are things we'll want to do
16:44:14 georgezgeorgez: at some point, we should probably index the entire codebase for RAG
16:44:25 georgezgeorgez: generate docs out of it, etc
16:45:28 coinselor: a lot of these tools will get built because we will just want to have them
16:46:05 georgezgeorgez: deeznnutz: regarding your question, let's stay focused on the incubator for this next dev round
once that is out there and pillars can see that the project is not dead, and that there are projects that need funding
we'll move into rotating SIGs
16:46:50 georgezgeorgez: the incubator mvp is like something any of us could bang out in a few days
but then it's not maintainable
16:47:14 georgezgeorgez: so we are deliberately going a bit slower right now to find out how to go fast while working together, so that things are maintainable long term
16:48:20 coinselor: the node manager shouldn't take too long to put together, we have a skeleton and a decent idea of what/how its gonna do it
16:48:38 georgezgeorgez: i want to avoid the bots getting stuck
so bots just are personal for now
i don't want that maintenance burden on HC1 right now

we'll need to probably assign ownership of all our repos to SIGs and cut anything that isn't being maintained
16:48:53 deeznnutz: while we work on the incubator Tobi in TG asked that we put together a forum post offering small work projects in case someone from the community wants to contribute:

https://forum.hypercore.one/t/community-task-list/917
16:48:57 georgezgeorgez: i want to avoid the bots getting stuck in maintenance loops
so bots just are personal for now
i don't want that maintenance burden on HC1 right now

we'll need to probably assign ownership of all our repos to SIGs and cut anything that isn't being maintained (edited)
16:49:16 deeznnutz: I just started a list to see if anyone else wants to add to it
16:49:28 georgezgeorgez: okay well we have the community SIG
that could be bundled under a work package for that SIG
16:49:43 georgezgeorgez: i think maybe sugoi can chair that one long term
16:50:00 georgezgeorgez: and again chairs get 20% of the package
16:51:45 georgezgeorgez: but yeah short term priorities

- incubator MVP
- node manager for automated updates
- relaunch HQZ and deploy DP
16:52:25 georgezgeorgez: that should prove that we are alive
and we have a path for continuing incentivized dev
16:52:47 georgezgeorgez: i also want to transition the meetings at some point
once we more of the bots in place
16:53:01 georgezgeorgez: an auto reoccurring meeting that spans like a day
16:53:16 georgezgeorgez: we'll have a member whitelist
16:53:32 georgezgeorgez: and bots will summarize the entire day's meeting
16:53:36 georgezgeorgez: allows it to be more async
16:54:06 coinselor: makes a lot of sense for a global contributor base
16:54:30 georgezgeorgez: yes especially if agents become more widespread
16:54:40 georgezgeorgez: dev agents can just post their updates/questions for them
16:54:51 georgezgeorgez: and then create their own relevant summaries as well
16:55:19 georgezgeorgez: right now your bot just deals with raw data
i think that is more fine to have a org level bot
16:55:36 georgezgeorgez: but once it gets subjective, like summaries etc
let people do that themselves
16:56:03 georgezgeorgez: ignition summary bot is gonna focus on different things than deeznutz summary bot
16:57:06 georgezgeorgez: i know morale is down quite badly
but i just really hope that some people can see how the individual pieces we've been working on all link together
16:57:37 georgezgeorgez: but we've really had to bootstrap a community development pipeline
16:57:44 georgezgeorgez: from scratch
16:58:51 deeznnutz: we are down to the hardened community members at this point.  But I do think it would be helpful to show some positive traction.
16:59:32 coinselor: ok, sounds like a plan to me
16:59:53 deeznnutz: yes - sound like a good plan to me too
17:00:13 georgezgeorgez: okay i'll get the incubator mvp definition into git
and tasks for the next round
17:00:18 georgezgeorgez: any other things we want to cover before we end?
17:00:28 georgezgeorgez: okay i'll get the incubator mvp definition into the sig repo
and tasks for the next round (edited)
17:00:49 deeznnutz: nothing else on my end.  this was helpful.  thank you!
17:01:04 coinselor: the only other thing we haven't touched is the .network website, we have played with some optimizations but probably should fall under an actual sig
17:01:14 georgezgeorgez: probably community sig
17:01:27 georgezgeorgez: sounds like the right owner
17:02:30 deeznnutz: coinselor: between you and me we should work on finalizing a PR to fix the load speeds.  you and I have both done it
17:03:07 coinselor: sure, we'll have sugoi see if we missed anything and clean up the pr
17:03:12 deeznnutz: maybe in community we agree on what to fix and do it
17:03:12 georgezgeorgez: (expect some ignition bots in the coming weeks)
17:03:51 georgezgeorgez: okay lets #endmeeting
17:03:58 georgezgeorgez: does that work or it has to be on it's own line
17:04:05 coinselor: good question haha